Lasagna Bolognese

Ingredients
For the bolognese
2 tbsp.

extra-virgin olive oil
1

large onion, chopped
1

large carrot, peeled and finely chopped
2

stalks celery, finely chopped
3

cloves garlic, minced
2 lb.

ground beef
1/2 c.

dry white wine 
2

(28-oz.) cans crushed tomatoes
1/4 c.

tomato paste
1 c.

low-sodium beef (or chicken) broth
1

bay leaf
1 c.

whole milk

Kosher salt

Freshly ground black pepper
For the lasagna
1 lb.

lasagna noodles
3 c.

ricotta
1

large egg, beaten
1 c.

freshly grated Parmesan, divided
1 1/2 tsp.

dried oregano
1/4 tsp.

crushed red pepper flakes

Kosher salt

Freshly ground black pepper
1 lb.

fresh mozzarella, sliced

Freshly chopped parsley, for serving
Directions

    In a large dutch oven over medium-high heat, heat oil. Add onion, carrot, and celery, and cook until soft, 5 minutes. Add garlic and cook until fragrant, 1 minute more. Stir in beef breaking up meat with back of a spoon. Cook until no longer pink, about 8 minutes. 
    Add wine, and bring mixture to a simmer. Cook until wine is mostly reduced. Stir in tomatoes, tomato paste, stock, and bay leaf, then reduce heat and simmer for 1 hour, allowing flavors to meld. 
    Discard bay leaf, then gradually stir in milk. Let simmer, stirring occasionally, until milk is fully incorporated, about 45 minutes. Season with salt and pepper.
    Assemble lasagna: Preheat oven to 375°. In a large pot of boiling salted water, cook pasta according to package directions. Drain. 
    In a medium bowl, combine ricotta, egg, ¾ cup Parmesan, oregano, and red pepper flakes. Season with salt and pepper. 
    Add a thin layer of bolognese to the bottom of a 9”-x-13” baking dish. Add a layer of noodles then top with ricotta mixture and sauce, then repeat layers. Top last layer of noodles with bolognese, mozzarella, and remaining ¼ cup Parmesan. 
    Cover with foil and bake for 40 minutes, then remove foil and bake 20 minutes or until cheese is melty and sauce is bubbling. 
    Garnish with parsley before serving. 

